h1. paginate

paginate (http://github.com/lmcalpin/Play--Paginate) is a replacement for the standard #{list/} Play! tag.

h2. Getting Started

To include paginate in an existing project add the following lines to your **conf/application.conf** file

bc. 
module.paginate=${play.path}/modules/paginate-head

h2. Using paginate

You can use paginate by creating an instance of a Paginator object.  Two are provided for you, though you can always create your own:

**play.modules.paginate.ModelPaginator** is used to paginate standard Play! JPA-based models.

bc. public static void index() {
      ModelPaginator paginator = new ModelPaginator(TheModel.class);
      render(paginator);
    }

You can also provide a JPA-QL WHERE clause and/or an ORDER clause to sort and filter the results.

bc. ModelPaginator entities = new ModelPaginator(Foo.class, "foo=?", "bar").orderBy("ID DESC"));
    render(entities);

**play.modules.paginate.ValuePaginator ** is used to wrap any existing List.

bc. public static void index() {
      List<T> realList = ...;
      ValuePaginator paginator = new ValuePaginator(realList);
      render(paginator);
    }

You can also simply provide a standard Java Collections API List, and behind the scenes, it will be autoboxed into a ValuePaginator.

bc. public static void index() {
      List<T> realList = ...;
      render(realList);
    }

From your view, include the pagination list and controls:

bc. #{paginate.list items:paginator, as:'r'} 
    ... ${r} // or whatever 
    #{/paginate.list} 
    #{paginate.controls items:paginator /} 

If you would like to use the default stylesheet, include this somewhere in your layout:

bc. <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="screen" href="@{'/public/stylesheets/play-pagination.css'}"> 

If you would like to include a summary "Displaying rows X to Y", you may include the 
summary tag:

bc. #{paginate.summary items:paginator/}

You can use the standard Play! #{else} tag with #{paginate.list}.  
The contents within this tag will be rendered if the collection is empty:

bc. #{paginate.list items:emptyCollection, as:'doesntmatter'}
      This content won't be displayed
    #{/paginate.list}
    #{else}
      Empty list!
    #{/else}

h2. Customization

Pagination controls are controlled by the view paginate/Controls.html and can be overridden in your project.

The following properties are available to customize pagination display:

- get/setBoundaryControlsEnabled: determines whether the First and Last buttons are displayed
- get/setPagesDisplayed: customizes the number of pages that show up between the forward/backward controls
- get/setPageSize: determines the number of rows we display per page
 
*Request Parameters*

By default, paginator uses the "page" request parameter to determine what page you are viewing.  If you would
like to override that, you can add a "paginator.parameter.name" entry to your application.conf:

  paginator.parameter.name=__pagenumber

However, using the default page request parameter will paginate every single pagination control on the page.
To avoid that, you need to invoke the setParameterName() method in your controller.

  ModelPaginator entities = new ModelPaginator(...);
  entities.setParameterName("foo");
  render(entities);
  
The example above will use the request parameter "foo" to capture the current page number for the ModelPaginator
associated with the variable named "entities."

There is currently no way to change the parameter name used for Lists that are autoboxed into ValuePaginators.

*Query Cache*

The JPA paginators try to use Hibernate's query cache, if you have one configured.  You can disable this by 
adding "paginator.jpa.useQueryCache=false" to your application.conf.

h2. Row Count Summary

An additional summary tag is available if you would like to display the message: "Displaying rows X to Y 
out of Z records."

  #{paginate.summary items:paginator /}

h2. Version History

0.1 - 7/26/2011 
 - initial versioned release
0.11 - 9/13/2011 
 - minor bug fixes
0.12 11/23/2011
 - add support for Sets and Maps
 - add multidb support
 - support entities with non-default naming (@Entity(name="..."))
 - use query cache if available
 - bug fix: eliminate duplicate row count checks
0.13 1/26/2012
 - bug fix: css class of last control was incorrect (thanks @peteyhawkins)
 - bug fix: else tag incorrectly displayed for non-empty lists if an if statement preceding the list is not satisfied (thanks @marioosh)
 - support entities extending GenericModel

